Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we're going to work on finishing our chat feature, so in our previous lesson, we
set things up so that you can click on this icon to open the chat box.
And then if you type a message into this field, hey, hello, and push enter.
Not only does your message show up in this annoying alert box, but your message is also getting broadcasted
to any and all other connected Web browsers.
OK, so for our first task in this lesson, instead of showing the message in this alert pop up, let's
instead show it within this chat log area.
Let me show you how I would set this up.
So in your text, Ed, I want you to jump in to chat.
J.S., this file lives within your front end JavaScript folder and then within the modules subfolder
up at the top of the file, within our constructor below the this dot inject html line lets out a property
that selects this div, write the div that we would want to append messages to.
So to do that, I would create a new property, let's say this dot chat log equals, and then document
dot query, selector quotes, hash tag and that div has an idea of simply chat.
OK, next, let's scroll down and find our open connection method.
So for me it's a round line number 43 and we don't actually want to show an annoying alert pop up message.
So let's do this within the body of our function, get rid of the alert line and instead let's call
a method that doesn't exist yet, but a method that we can create in just a moment.
So let's say this DOT and then call a method named display message from server parentheses to call that.
And within these parentheses, we would just want to pass in the data that the server is sending over.
Now in order for the this keyword to still be pointing towards our overall object, let's convert this
function into an arrow function so we can just get rid of the word function here.
And then after the parentheses, just include the arrow symbol.
Cool.
Now we can go create a method with this matching name.
So maybe write down here, just say display message from server parentheses, curly brackets within
these parentheses.
Be sure to include a parameter, let's say data.
And now within this method, this is where we would want to select this div and then append a bit of
new HTML onto it.
Technically, we could have written this code right within this area, but I like to separate it out
into its own separate function.
So within our new method, let's say this dot chat log dot insert adjacent HTML in parentheses, the
call that we give this insert adjacent HTML method to arguments.
So Eikon will be the first argument is where you want to insert this HTML.
So instead of the placeholder I would say quotes and then before and so right before the end of this
element or this div and then the second argument instead of the B placeholder, this is the HTML that
you want to insert into that element.
So instead of the B, I would just have back Tick's.
And for now, just as a simple test, let's just create a paragraph element to opening and closing paragraph
and then to do something dynamic in this template, literal right within the back text, we can just
say dollar sign curly brackets and then let's just say DataDot message.
Let's go ahead and save this and test it out, so back in the browser, be sure to refresh.
I will also refresh in this window where I'm logged in with barks a lot.
And if I open up the chat in this window and then also open up the chat and this window and say hello
there, you can see it appears there and also for this user.
Perfect.
And then within the barks a lot screen, I could say, hey, I'm a dog.
And you can see it appears in the window where I'm logged in with Brad.
This is great.
Except instead of just a simple paragraph with the chat message, we'd probably also want to show the
person's username and avatar who wrote each message.
Now, instead of having you write a ton of HTML by hand to set up that formatting, let's just copy
and paste a bit of code from our GitHub repo.
So from the same repository we've been using in this course, just dig in to the O2 complex app folder
and then the O1 HTML templates folder and we are interested in the chat.
Dasch visible the HTML file within that file.
I want you to look for line number seventy three.
You'll see a comment that says template for messages from others.
And here we can see a comment where it says and template.
So I want you to select these seven lines of code.
So let's copy these seven lines into our clipboard and then back in our text editor within our display
message from Server Method.
Let's get rid of the simple P tag.
So now we just have an empty pair of back ticks within the back ticks.
You can drop downs or on a separate line and paste in your clipboard.
For now, we can leave the example hardcoded avatar of barks a lot and we can also leave the hardcoded
username of barks a lot Colen.
But let's at least swap out the message text.
So let's delete this.
I am doing well.
How about you?
And in its place, let's say dollar sign curly brackets and then just say data dot message.
OK, let's go ahead and save this and let's test it out.
So refresh in both of your windows if you have multiple windows open.
And I'll open up the chat again in both browsers, and now if I say hello there and jump over to this
window, there's that message.
I can say hi, how are you?
You get the idea.
So now what we need to do, though, is instead of having hard coded photos of everyone in the world
looking like barks a lot with their username and avatar, we need to actually pull in based on the current
user session data, the relevant or current user name and avatar for that individual message.
Let me show you how I would begin to set that up back in our text.
Ed, I want you to jump in to our app.
Just file down towards the bottom of Apgar's.
We see this socket IO code that we wrote and write below this line where we say const IO equals and
then we require in and IO right below that line.
Let's add a new line.
Now the next 60 seconds or so are not going to be very educational.
So this code is not worth memorizing.
This is just the result of me researching through the documentation for the express session package
and learning how to integrate it with the socket IO package.
So let's do this.
Let's say I o dot use and that's a method.
So it gets parentheses and now we're going to give it a function that it will run any time there's a
new transfer of data function, parentheses, curly brackets within the parentheses for this function,
let's give it to parameters.
We could name them anything but let's name them socket comma and then let's name the second parameter
next.
OK, now within the body of this function, let's say session options parentheses, you might remember
that this is something we set up towards the top of this file.
But within these parentheses, we're going to give it three arguments.
So socket dot request, comma, socket dot request dot, RSS, comma.
And then finally next again, this code is not worth memorizing.
Essentially, it's just making our express session data available from within the context of socket
IO.
So now check this out.
This is how we're going to leverage this within this area where we say Io dot on Conexion.
I actually want you to cut these three lines of code into your clipboard.
So I'm going to begin selecting this line that says socket dot on chat message from browser and just
select these three lines like this again.
Be sure to cut that into your clipboard instead of just outright deleting it.
We're going to want to paste it in again in just a moment.
What I want to do here is create an if statement.
So if parentheses, curly brackets and for the condition, I want to say only if you're logged in.
Right.
Only if the Web browser that has opened a socket connection, only if they are actually logged in.
So within these if parentheses, we can just say socket dot request dot session dot user.
Now within the if curly brackets, this is where we are safe to paste back in our clipboard.
Cool.
So now the only way we are actually going to acknowledge a chat message being sent from a browser is
if it's coming from a browser with logged in user session data.
Perfect.
Now let's take things one step further within this.
If block right above this socket online, let's add a new line.
Let's create a variable that will save us a bit of typing.
Let's say let user equal socket dot request, dot session dot user.
So remember, whatever a user logs in, we're storing basic things in session data, things like their
user name, their user ID and their avatar.
So check this out.
Look how we can leverage this.
Now, when a chat message comes in from the browser, then we are sending it out to any and all other
connected browsers.
At the moment, we're just sending an object with one property of message.
But check this out right after data dot message.
Let's add a comma and let's add another property named username.
So username Colen.
And then we can just leverage this piece of session data.
So we named it user.
So username, Kolan user dot username.
Let's also add another property that will contain their avatar.
So Kharma Avatar, Kolan User Dot Avan.
Ah, so now when we're broadcasting this data out to any and all browsers, not only does it include
the message, but it has the relevant username and avatar.
Let's go ahead and save this.
And now let's leverage those username and avatar values within our front end JavaScript.
So jump back into Chat Jass and within our display message from server method.
Remember, this is the HTML template we paste it in.
Well, now we can get rid of the hardcoded avatar and username.
Let's start with the avatar.
So here we see image with a class of Avatar tiny.
Let's hollow out the source attributes value.
So just get rid of this https until the closing quote.
So now within the quotes we can just say dollar sign, curly brackets, data dot avatar.
OK then let's also hollow out this hardcoded username.
So keep the colon but get rid of Bachs a lot and say dollar sign curly brackets data dot username.
Cool.
Let's go ahead and save this and test it out.
So be sure to refresh any and all connected browsers and then I will also reopen the chat feature.
Now if I say hi, my name is Brad, you can see it shows my avatar and username.
I jump over to this browser window.
Cool.
You see the correct values and now I can say, cool, I'm a dog.
Perfect.
And in both windows we're seeing the relevant avatars and usernames for our next task.
We should probably set things up so that messages from you yourself appear differently.
Maybe if it's a message that you sent, it's aligned to the right instead of the left.
And maybe it has a blue background of.